- [Instructor] Let's talk about messages.
We will have a look at the message
as enterprise integration pattern and also as a
specific Spring integration component.
We will spend most of our time
in this lesson making some code.
We should think of a message as a discrete unit
of information exchanged by participants
in the business logic of an application.
The enterprise integration message pattern
emphasizes strict encapsulation and statelessness.
This makes for a component that is useful
across synchronous and asynchronous contexts.
Messages are very often purposed to communicate data,
commands, or events, and they typically fulfill a contract
between a sender and receiver.
As a pattern, a message may be supported
by contextual meta information.
This is comparable to an envelope for a letter
to ensure transport fulfillment.
As the most granular Spring integration component,
the message directly supports these design qualities.
Here is a summary of the message interface
implemented by every Spring integration message.
Note that this message type is a composite.
It holds a map type that contains header-key value pairs
and a generically typed payload that contains
the contents of the message, itself.
It is important to know that once a message
is instantiated it is immutable.
This quality fulfills, quite strictly,
the encapsulation aspects
of the enterprise integration pattern.
A final point here, is that Spring provides
a MessageBuilder utility class.
It is highly recommended to use a builder
in order to create your message objects
instead of creating them from scratch.
A major benefit of doing this is that Spring
will automatically take care of setting those correct
message headers for us, which would be an undertaking
if we were to do this manually.
This is much easier to see than to explain
and so let's have a look at this in action.
Inside our code editor we will update our
project source code by using git checkout O2_O1b.
That will make sure we're looking
at the source files for this lesson.
With that done, let's orient ourselves for just a moment.
The entry point for our web application
is found in Source, main, java,
Dashboard application.
The main method on line 26 is our run point.
At line 29, we initialize the workhorse
of the application, Dashboard manager.
The Dashboard manager is where most
of our work together will take place.
Opening Dashboard manager, look to line 42
to see that this method is passing
a software build identifier to the view
by setting a property on a DAO, a data access object.
This looks in the browser like that software build label
there, in the tech support component
of the user interface.
What we want to do instead, is to capture
the software runtime status into an object
that we can use for messaging to multiple consumers,
including not only the view,
but also a backend support service.
In order to achieve this, let's first construct
a runtime status Payload object.
We're going to use a custom domain object
that we've used for this purpose.
And the constructor for this object
wants a property string, and it also wants a date.
So let's supply that to our domain object.
And now that we have a payload, let's create a message
and learn about MessageBuilder
by unpeeling this like an onion.
The MessageBuilder utility class
gives us three construction objects.
We can create a message from another message.
We can create a message by passing in a customer set
of message headers, if we need to do that for some reason.
But what we're going to do right now, is simply create
a message with a payload.
And we're going to use the Payload object
that we just created.
Once we've given our Payload object to our MessageBuilder,
we need to fire the build method
and we will have a message.
In order to use our message, we need to get a handle on it,
so let's type our return message as a generic message type.
A generic message is kind of the workhorse
base implementation of the message interface.
And we will use that as a return type for MessageBuilder.
And there we have a message that we can pass
around and use at will.
I would like to show you one more thing
before we close this lesson.
Do you remember in the slide deck we talked
about message headers?
This MessageBuilder class gives us the ability
using the set method to set all kinds
of custom headers on this message:
Error channels, Reply channels, custom headers.
We don't have time to learn about all of those things
but it's important to know that this is available
because remember, a message is immutable once it's created.
So if you need to do anything with those headers,
this is the point at which you want to do that.
And this is where we will end this lesson.
We have a plain old JAVA object, a generic message.
It's all dressed up but it's got nowhere to go
because we need to make a channel
to make that really useful.
And that's what we're going to learn about
in the next lesson.